= TrackJD

A simple Android app and supporting infrastructure for reading sensor data from
a smartphone and sending it over WiFi to a database on a server. Also includes
a simple visualisation component written in R.

== Architecture

TrackJD (Android app):
* A background service records sensor data locally in an SQLite database and,
  when the device is connected to WiFi, it posts the data to the server (below).
* Each sensor has a Collector (derived from AbstractCollector) that listens to
  the sensor. It creates a data point (derived from AbstractPoint) appropriate
  for that sensor and stores it (using the DataLogger).

server:
* a very simple web server in ruby (Rack)
* accepts data from the clients and stores them in a PostgreSQL database

monitor:
* an R script that extracts the latest data from the PostgreSQL database and
  plots them

== Requirements

TrackJD:
* An Android 4 phone with GPS, accelerometer, rotation vector and Bluetooth
  sensors. This was tested on an HTC Sensation Z710e running Android 4.0.3.
* Eclipse with the appropriate Android development plug-in

server:
* Ruby 1.9.3, PostgreSQL (see setup instructions below)

monitor:
* R 2.15.0
* RODBC with appropriate datasources; see comments in monitor.R

== Server Setup Instructions

These instructions assume that you are running on *nix.

First, you need Ruby 1.9.3. If you cannot install it via your package manager,
you can install it using the ruby version manager (RVM) (https://rvm.io). The
current installation commands are:
  \curl -L https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable --ruby
  rvm install ruby-1.9.3

You can set up and run the server with 
  cd server
  psql postgres <create_db.sql
  bundle install
  nohup ruby track_jd.rb &

== Known Bugs

The monitoring script needs cleanup, and it doesn't handle multiple devices
reporting at once.

The app does not allow you to set several important parameters. They should
really be configurable from the server.

== LICENSE

(The MIT license.)

Copyright (c) 2012-2013 John Lees-Miller

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
 
